# Release notes

## Oct 14, 2025

### New + Bugfix

- Bugfix for previous version
    - Fixed the bit position of the frameFlag1/2 swapped in the heartbeat delimiter flags.
- New function
    - 125 MHz system clock signal can be output from NIM-OUT ports by selecting it via IOM.
- New firmware
    - Str-LRTDC v2.A
    - Str-LRTDC-10G v2.1
    - Str-HRTDC Base v2.A (v2.9 is skipped)
    - Mezzanine Str-HRTDC v2.9
    - Mikumari Clock Hub v2.9

## May 29, 2025

### New + Bugfix

- Bugfix for previous version
    - Rename "trigger emulation mode" as "trigger assisted mode".
    - The delay function of the trigger gate generator for the trigger assisted mode does not work due to bug. It is fixed.
- New function
    - The clock signal (7.8125 MHz) generated by dividing the system clock (125 MHz) is introduced. It can be output from the NIM output by selecting this signal with the IO manager. Its phase is locked to the heartbeat signal.
- New firmware
    - Str-LRTDC v2.9
    - Str-LRTDC-10G v2.0
        - StrLrTdc with SiTCP-XG (10GbE). New release.
    - Str-HRTDC Base v2.8
    - Mezzanine Str-HRTDC v2.8
    - Mikumari Clock Hub v2.8

## Mar. 31, 2025

### Update

- Update the product number of CDD-OPT mezzanine card.
    - CDD-OPT v3 (GN-2436-1) is the latest.

## Mar. 5, 2025

### New + Bugfix

- Bugfix for previous version
    - All firmware released on Jan. 6 have critical bugs.
    - So far the function to insert throttling start/end words in the input throttling type-2 unit has not been working. Now that the feature is enabled, a word is generated with input throttling type-2 start/end data types to indicate that the throttling feature is working.
- New firmware
    - Str-LRTDC v2.8
    - Str-HRTDC Base v2.7
    - Mezzanine Str-HRTDC v2.7
    - Mikumari Clock Hub v2.7
    - Mikumari Clock Root v2.7
        - The Mikumari Clock Root v2.7 will be the final version. It will not be updated any further.

## Jan. 6, 2025

### New + Improved

- New function of LACCP distributing frame flags
    - LACCP can distribute 2-bits frame flags. The flags are embedded into the flags regions in the heartbeat frame delimiter word.
    - The users can embed external condition such as gates into the heartbeat frame.
- Gated scaler
    - Two scaler units gated by the frame flags are added. Totally, 3 scaler units exist in firmware.
    - Gated scaler counts up while the frame flag takes 1.
- New firmware
    - Str-LRTDC v2.6
    - Str-HRTDC Base v2.5
    - Mezzanine Str-HRTDC v2.5
    - Mikumari Clock Hub v2.6
    - Mikumari Clock Root v2.6
    - The Mikumari Clock Root firmware will be deprecated in the next update because the Mikumari Clock Hub can do the same thing.

## Jun. 4, 2024

### New

- De facto release version
    - Str-LRTDC v2.5
    - Str-HRTDC Base v2.4
    - Mezzanine Str-HRTDC v2.4
    - Mikumari Clock Root v2.5
    - Mikumari Clock Hub v2.5
